# **Extract Publication Data**

Keeping accurate and up-to-date information regarding the output from an
author / research group can be a time-consuming task, however remains
essential in order to evaluate the research impact. There are multiple
repositories on-line such as PubMed or CrossRef which store this
information, and can already be accessed using an API in R in order to
extract this data on an automatic basis.

There are excellent packages that already exist to access this data -
[RISmed](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/RISmed/RISmed.pdf) for
PubMed and [rcrossref](https://github.com/ropensci/rcrossref) for
CrossRef. While these provide a vast quantity of useful information,
this is often outwith a dataframe/tibble format and so requires a
significant quantity of post-processing to otherwise achieve an easily
usable output.

 

## **1. Extract Data**

The functions `extract_pmid()` (PubMed) and `extract_doi()` (CrossRef)
use unique identifiers to extract important information regarding
publications. This can be used for the purposes of citation, cataloguing
publications, or for further evaluation of impact (see **ImpactR:
Citations**).

However, it should be noted that the information extracted is dependent
on the accuracy and completeness of the information within these
repositories. Therefore, some additional editing may be required to
remove heterogeneity / make corrections / supply missing data.

### **a). `extract_pmid()`**

The `extract_pmid()` function only requires a vector/list of PubMed
identification numbers, and uses the
[RISmed](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/RISmed/RISmed.pdf)
package to extract publication information.

The function will automatically extract the authors (`auth_group`,
`auth_n`, `authors`), and the associated altmetric score (`altmetric`).
However, this functionality has been made optional as it can extend the
run time of the function (particularly in the case of a large number of
authors).

``` r
out_pubmed <- impactr::extract_pmid(pmid = c(26769786, 26195471, 30513129),
                            get_auth = TRUE, get_altmetric = FALSE, get_impact = FALSE)
```

<div style="border: 1px solid #ddd; padding: 5px; overflow-x: scroll; width:1000px; ">

<table class="table table-striped" style="width: auto !important; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

<thead>

<tr>

<th style="text-align:left;">

pmid

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

author group

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

type

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

title

</th>

<th style="text-align:right;">

year

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

journal full

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

journal abbr

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

volume

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

issue

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

pages

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

doi

</th>

<th style="text-align:right;">

cite pm

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

nlmid

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

journal issn

</th>

<th style="text-align:right;">

auth n

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

author

</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td style="text-align:left;">

26769786

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

STARSurg Collaborative

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

Paper (Original)

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 6in; ">

Outcomes After Kidney injury in Surgery (OAKS): protocol for a
multicentre, observational cohort study of acute kidney injury following
major gastrointestinal and liver surgery.

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

2016

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BMJ open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BMJ Open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

6

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

1

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

e009812

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

10.1136/bmjopen-2015-009812

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

8

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

101552874

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

2044-6055

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

40

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 6in; ">

Bath M, Glasbey J, Claireaux H, Drake T, Gundogan …

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td style="text-align:left;">

26195471

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

STARSurg Collaborative

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

Paper (Original)

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 6in; ">

Determining Surgical Complications in the Overweight (DISCOVER): a
multicentre observational cohort study to evaluate the role of obesity
as a risk factor for postoperative complications in general surgery.

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

2015

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BMJ open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BMJ Open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

5

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

7

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

e008811

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

10.1136/bmjopen-2015-008811

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

8

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

101552874

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

2044-6055

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

11

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 6in; ">

Nepogodiev D, Chapman SJ, Glasbey J, Kelly M, Khat…

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td style="text-align:left;">

30513129

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

STARSurg Collaborative

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

Paper (Original)

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 6in; ">

Prognostic model to predict postoperative acute kidney injury in
patients undergoing major gastrointestinal surgery based on a national
prospective observational cohort study.

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

2018

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BJS open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BJS Open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

2

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

6

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

400-410

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

10.1002/bjs5.86

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

2

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

101722685

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

2474-9842

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

1784

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 6in; ">

Nepogodiev D, Walker K, Glasbey JC, Drake TM, Bora…

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

</div>

In general, it appears that the information on PubMed tends to be the
most accurate/up-to-date, however the Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
occasionally is not updated to reflect the final DOI for the paper (this
can either be amended or the publisher contacted to correct).

 

### **b). `extract_doi()`**

The `extract_doi()` function only requires a vector/list of Digital
Object Identifiers (DOI), and uses the
[rcrossref](https://github.com/ropensci/rcrossref) package to extract
publication information.

The function will automatically extract the authors (`auth_group`,
`auth_n`, `authors`), and the associated altmetric score (`altmetric`).
However, this functionality has been made optional as it can extend the
run time of the function (particularly in the case of a large number of
authors). It should be also noted that crossref tends to record
authorship less well (compared to PubMed).

``` r
# Example output from user_roles_n()
out_doi <- impactr::extract_doi(doi = out_pubmed$doi,
                       get_auth = TRUE, get_altmetric = FALSE, get_impact = FALSE)
```

<div style="border: 1px solid #ddd; padding: 5px; overflow-x: scroll; width:1000px; ">

<table class="table table-striped" style="width: auto !important; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

<thead>

<tr>

<th style="text-align:left;">

doi

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

author group

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

title

</th>

<th style="text-align:right;">

year

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

journal abbr

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

volume

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

issue

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

pages

</th>

<th style="text-align:right;">

cite cr

</th>

<th style="text-align:right;">

auth n

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

author

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

journal full

</th>

<th style="text-align:left;">

journal issn

</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 2.5in; ">

10.1136/bmjopen-2015-009812

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 2.5in; ">

NA

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 7in; ">

Outcomes After Kidney injury in Surgery (OAKS): protocol for a
multicentre, observational cohort study of acute kidney injury following
major gastrointestinal and liver surgery

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

2016

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BMJ Open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

6

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

1

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

e009812

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

11

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

NA

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 2.5in; ">

NA

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BMJ Open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

2044-6055

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 2.5in; ">

10.1136/bmjopen-2015-008811

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 2.5in; ">

NA

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 7in; ">

Determining Surgical Complications in the Overweight (DISCOVER): a
multicentre observational cohort study to evaluate the role of obesity
as a risk factor for postoperative complications in general surgery

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

2015

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BMJ Open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

5

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

7

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

e008811

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

12

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

11

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 2.5in; ">

Nepogodiev D, Chapman SJ, Glasbey J, Kelly M, Khat…

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BMJ Open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

2044-6055

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 2.5in; ">

10.1002/bjs5.86

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 2.5in; ">

STARSurg Collaborative

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 7in; ">

Prognostic model to predict postoperative acute kidney injury in
patients undergoing major gastrointestinal surgery based on a national
prospective observational cohort study

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

2018

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BJS Open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

2

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

6

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

400-410

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

3

</td>

<td style="text-align:right;">

NA

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;min-width: 2.5in; ">

NA

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

BJS Open

</td>

<td style="text-align:left;">

2474-9842

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

</div>
